Asia. This was the religious literature of Ceylon, Siam, and Burma, written on palm leaf manuscripts, and, for the most part, in a language not at any time native to any of those countries, but hailing from the ancient dialects of North-East India. Closely fl.lrin to this language, which, as a literary diction, is known in the mediaeval portion of the literature as pali (or The Text), is that of certain inscriptions carved on rock and pillar, found in different parts of India. These are known as the Edicts of the Emperor Asoka, the Indian overlord who reigned about 272-35 b.c. They consist largely of injunctions to righteous and fraternal conduct, and refer to passages contained in the most ancient of these same Pali compositions. These oldest compilations are treasured, in the three countries above-named, as canonical scriptures. An d the Pali language is judged to be a literary version of an Indo-European or Aryan dialect, later than the language of the Vedas and Brahmanas, or oldest known Brahmin texts, but earlier than what is called Sanskrit, that is, the literary language of India during nearly the whole of the Christian era.  Now this Pali was the vehicle of what is, so far as we have yet been able to discover, the earliest formulated records of Buddhism.  Dead as a vernacular, it still lives on as a literary instrument in the native colleges or monasteries of Ceylon, Siam, and Burma, just as Latin was the mediaeval, and is, to some extent still, the modern vehicle fo ecclesiastical Christianity. In its veriia^©^ or spoken form, it appears to have been the language, according to Buddhist commen- r tarial tradition, of Mag’adha, according to Rhys Davids, of K5sala, about the fifth century b.c. (or earlier) and subsequent centuries. It was in the kingdom of Kosala that the Buddhist movement took firmest root, growing up in the great college at SavatthI, the site of which has during the last few years been excavated. So that although the first Buddhist Emperor, Asoka, was of Magadha, south of Kosala, and established his capital at Patna on the Ganges, the Buddhist canon had already been compiled (though not yet written) more or less in its present form in Kosalese, and not in Magadhi, and so it has since then remained in the countries of Further India, after the expulsion of Buddhism from its birthplace.  Buddhism was a missionizing movement from the first, and Further India was won over to Buddhism by missions dispatched from its centres in North-East India. And it is in Further India, constantly loyal to its adopted religion, that the Pali books, hand¬ written on palm-leaves, have been preserved, freshly copied, commented upon, or other¬ wise elaborated in other palm-leaf manu¬ scripts, and have thence, in copies old or new, been sold or given to, or appropriated by Europeans. 
Now while Prinsep on the one hand first deciphered the rock-cut inscriptions of the Emperor Asoka, containing historical evidenee- of inestimable value. Tumour, Childers ant Grogerly, Oldenberg and Rhys Davids, for ovei half a century, have been educating Euro¬ pean culture in the contents of the Pali palm-leaf MSS. Prior to this, our knowledge of early Buddhism was derived from certain books of an early mediaeval date, such as that from which the late Edwin Arnold derived his famous poem, “ The Light of Asia.” These books were written in the Sanskrit, which as a general literary vehicle of thought (and not as merely the language of a learned class) had gradually superseded the earlier literary vehicle of Pali. So far, no manuscripts from Northern India, or from Buddhist cen¬ tres North and North-East of India, have’ yielded us anything, in diction or in subject- n ] a tter, so apparently near to the beginnings of Buddhism, as a religion and a body of culture, as some of these Pali books that Ceylon, Siam and Burma have preserved.  These oldest books, together with several of a somewhat later date, claim, by their own testimony, and the ancient tradition of these southern Buddhist countries, to have been collected into a Canon or Bible of sacred docu¬ ments, entitled the Three Pit'dk&s, or Baskets <>1 Tradition. They were, and are, held “ sacred ” in this sense, that they are believed to contain the genuine sayings of Go't&m&, the Buddha, the founder of Buddhism, as well as other books, which are elaborations of subjects stated by him in outline; sacred also in this, that they may not be added to, nor otherwise altered. 
Besides these Three Pitakas, the Pali literature contains a great body of exegetical commentary on the Pitakas, mainly as to the oldest group of it, the work of two scholars, both Indian—Buddhaghosa and Dhamma- pala—dating from the fifth century, a.d.  a great number of sub-commentaries added gradually from that date till the present, and lastly a number of other treatises, some older and some more recent than the great com¬ mentaries. These are independent works, in. that they are not systematic expositions of the sacred texts. But they are, again, dependent in that they express opinions in conformity with those texts, and frequently cite them as authoritative.
Now it is the editing of this palm-leaf literature in printed books, and the translating of them by the scholars I have named, aided by many others, that has been gradually, for the last half century, bringing a knowledge of early Buddhism to the educated public m.  Europe and America. The Pali Text Society alone, founded by Professor Rhys Davids m 1881, has published seventy volumes or texts and translations. The Sacred Books of the East, founded by the late Max Miiller, published several translations.
